if there is no such file after vim instruction, vim will creat a file for you,
and this file is so created.

.swp .swo .un files are created when using vim editor to recover files closed
accidentally

i to insert before cursor
a to insert behind cursor
o to insert at the head of next line
# o is fantastic^^

capital I is going to the beginning of the current line
capital A is going to the end of the current line
capital O is going to the head of the above line that will be created.

:q quit without saving
:wq quit kept saving
:!q quit without saving

use number + arrow to move quickly
eg: 5 + j is going to move the cursor 5 line down

:set number  # set the left side number for coding
:set relative number # set the left side number of relation (this is insane
useful when quickly moving to a specific line)
:set mouse=a  # this activate your mouse in vim 

you can save you preferences in ~/.vimrc file using 
the file .vimrc is located in C:/Users/youraccountname 

u: undo last operation
ctrl + R: redo last operation
the so-called last operation means you pressed an escape button and return to the normal mode
while dd in normal mode delete the line without leaving the normal mode, 
the cc instruction will delete the whole line and force you into insert mode,
which is sometimes more useful than dd instruction.

we can use yanking and D for deleting in normal mode. 
using visual mode for selecting.
c instruction can also be used in visual mode.
in visual mode, when we enter c, not only the selected part was deleted, also we enter the insert mode.
however, if we use d instruction, we delete and return to normal mode.
in a word, c instruction is better at frequently changing your word.
upper case D is deleting the rest of the line.
upper case C is deleting the rest of the line and continue to change the line. 
when you need to jump to a specific line you can type the line number + G.
you can also jump to a specific line by typing : + line number in normal mode.
there are multiple visual mode: visual line mode and visual block mode.
type shift + v into visual line mode 
type ctrl + q into visual block mode
visual line mode allows you to select multiple lines
visual block mode allows you to select vertically to select multiple lines with the same length.

continue to use O and a, that will be helpful i think.
below is just the test part. 
 test
 insert mode tinsertmo uppercase A will guide you to the end of the line.
i can change the line deleted by cc instruction. that is really convenience.
wow, cc is better than dd instruction, i think, at the time of 09/08/2022 11:38

there are multiple visual mode: visual line mode and visual block mode.
anchane them when moving around words by words, you can use w and b instruction.
w instruction lets you move to the next word,
b instruction lets you move to the last word.
the differences between W, w, b and B is B regard hello-world as a single word.
when in normal mode, we can use dd to delete a whole line. 
we can also use dw to delete the next word,
use db to delete the last word.
use diw to delete the current word.
and here if you clever enough, you will know that ciw will change the current word.
use d5w to delete the next 5 words.
the very useful key binding is 0 for moving to the head of current line and dollor symbol to the end of the line.
yiw for copy the current word in normal mode and paste it by p also in normal mode and after paste
it automatically turn into insert mode.
use ci" in normal mode can delete and change the part in the bracket and parenthesis.
d percent is going to delete the whole thing include the bracket.
you can goto the first line of this file by typing gg.
you can goto the end line of this file by typing shift + g, which is just uppercase G.
you can use / in the normal mode to search 
use ? in the normal mode to fuzzy search the fuzzy search here is just part search,
if with wrong part, it won't be used. 
use n to find next same word
use N to find last same word

my tetdd
c can awhen i want to do something no one can stop me, just like the R change the current  word in normal mode.
it will destory eveything in the way.
using cc is maybe the best way to changing  a line.
continue my test
 test
c
change everythingtest of parenthesis:
change everythinge to test
change everythingogd
change everythingsimple sentence for test.
change everythingsimple-sentence-for-test.
change everythingsimple_sentence_for_test.
change everything
change everythingcalled last operation means you pressed an escape button and return to the normal mode make sth fine.
change everythingscinating.
change everythingthis is a test") and i am going to delete or change that message.

continue continue continue continue 
continue 
continue continue continue continue 
that is fantastic 
open 
that is really amazing.
sentence continue to code.
continue continue continue continue 
continue continue continue continue 
ontinue 
continue continue 
that is fantastic 
open 
try ci quotation in a parentess (this is a test)
that is a test only.

dangnilaole zoubudongle



mkdir make dir help me insert this. 
